
languages implementer (compiler writers)

language users (programmers)
## Language Definition

lexical structure
	– Its lexical structures, which concerns the forms of its individual symbols (e.g. :=), keywords, identifiers etc.

Syntax
	– Its syntax, which defines the structure of the components of the language, e.g., the structures of programs, statements (e.g., assignment), expression, terms etc.

Semantics
	– Its semantics, which defines the meanings and usage of structures and requirements that cannot be describe by a grammar (e.g., checking type consistency, applying + operator to two numeric values is to evaluate the arithmetic sum, etc.).

## Language Analysis

 - Language implementations systems analyze the lexucal and syntax structure

There are two parts to this system

- A low-level part called a lexical analyzer (mathematically, a finite automaton based on a regular grammar);
- A high-level part called a syntax analyzer, or parser (mathematically, a push-down automaton based on a context-free grammar).

## Lexical Analysis

- A lexical analyser (scanner) reads the source program, a character at a time, and outputs tokens to the next phase of the compiler (parser)
- 
• It identifies substrings of the source program that
belong together - lexemes
 -–  Lexemes match character patterns, which are
associated with a lexical category called a token.
– sum is a lexeme; its token may be IDENT.


## Alphabet
 An alphabet Σ is a finite non-empty set (of symbols)
- the set Σab = {a, b} is an alphabet comprising symbols a and b;
- the set Σaz = {a, …, z} is the alphabet of lowercase English letters;
- the set Σasc of all ASCII characters is an alphabet.
## Strings
Astring or word over an alphabet Σ is a finite
concatenation (or juxtaposition) of symbols from
Σ.

The length of a string w (that is, the number of
symbols it has) is denoted |w|. E.g., |abba| = 4.

The empty or null string is denoted ε, and so |ε|
= 0.


## Regular Expressions and Their Languages

Regular expressions specify patterns of strings
of symbols.

We say a regular expression r matches (or is
matched by) a set of strings if the patterns of the
strings are those specified by the regular
expression.

The set of strings matched by a RE r is denoted
by L(r) ⊆ Σ∗ (i.e., those strings belong to all the
strings over the alphabet Σ) and is called the
language determined or generated by r

## Regular Expression Definitions
∅ (the symbol for empty-set or empty language,
i.e., the set contains nothing) is a regular
expression. This RE matches no strings at all
and will not be useful to us

ε (the empty string symbol) is a regular
expression. This matches just the empty string
ε.


## ∅ and ε
The empty string ε should not be confused with the empty language ∅,
• ∅ is a formal language (i.e., a set of strings) that
contains no strings, not even the empty string. ε
• The empty string is a string that has the
properties:
| ε |=0. i.e., its length is zero.
ε +s =s +ε =s i.e., the empty string is the identity
element of the concatenation operation


If r and s are regular expressions, then r | s
(sometimes written r + s, and read “r or s”) is a
RE.
• For example:
– Regular expression a | b matches the strings a or b.
– a | ε matches the strings a or ε .

## Precedence in REs
– () has the highest precedence;
– then
∗ (or +);
– then concatenation; and
– | has lowest precedence.